We just wait for one or two
minutes for others to enjoy the
class and will start very soon.
Meanwhile, if you have any
questions regarding the.
Uh, any any issue related
to the course. I'm ready
to take your questions.
We already released the marks
for the first lab, I mean lab 02
and also for the lectures
lecture 02. So if you have
any problem with the marks or if
you want to review your marking,
you can contact your lab
instructor 1st and then he give
you an opportunity to review or
he will explain what you receive
this mark. And uh, yes.
Oh yeah, one
thing is that uh, in the
discussion board is student
asked me that.
What is the range I mean, the difficulty of the questions or
what are the types of question
in the exams. Basically, as we
said in the first lecture, there
are some topics that we don't.
We don't have enough time to
cover in the lectures. Also it
is intentional, because, uh, you
want you to do is research or I
mean on Internet on other
sources in order to, I mean
learn some topics that we don't
cover in the lectures.
Kind of developing your critical
thinking, so that's why we cover
some topics in the lab
assignments and lecture
assignments. As a result, in the
exam we may have some questions
from those topics, so as a
result it's important for you to
do the assignments or at least
read the assignments, just to
know that what are those new
topics or related topics. But in
terms of the difficulty in the
exam, we're going to have much
more easier questions, and the
reason is that for the
assignments you have one week.
To do the assignment or to do the lab but in the exam you may
have two or three hours, so as
a result I mean the difficulty
of the question in the exams
are much more.
Easier compared to the
difficulty of the questions in
the assignments versus lecture
or lab assignments.
Instance in the exams we never
ask you to write a code.
Uh, or uh, we may ask
you to prove something, but not,
I mean long mathematical proofs
so. Yes, I does. It make sense
on it so.
Uh.
Awesome.
You're welcome, so any
other questions, so I
was just trying to.
Share my screen.
Share my screen.
So again, I don't have two
monitors, so I'm going. I'm
using my laptop, so I'm
going to share my.
A screen, so if you have any
questions etc you can put it
in the chat box an every 10
or 15 minutes. I stop and
take your questions.
So are you able
to see my screen?
When we get there, will we get
the answer for the lecture
assignments? Yes, I will release
the key to the assigned lecture
assignments, not for the.
Lab assignments, so I won't give
you the correct code for the lab
assignments, but for the lecture
assignments I give the key for
the questions, But The thing is
that some keys has answers to
all questions, but some keys
only has answers to some of the
questions. So, uh, yes, I
release the key, but the key
may include all the answers or
some. I mean questions that
most of these students select
those questions and answer
them. There is all the provide
keys to those questions.
Uh, for the first lecture
assignments will list all
the keys, but for the next
I mean other assignments.
We just have questions. We
will have a key for two or
three or five questions.
Not all of the questions.
Yes and also I mean.
It is helpful for the exam so
you can practice on the I mean
different type of question in
the exam as well.
Even if you don't have, you
don't have the key for the
question. You can attend the
lab sections and the lab
instructor can help you not
give you the direct answer,
but can help you to find an
answer to the question.
So you can attend the office
hour and so we can discuss the
problem and I can give you some
guide in order to come up with
the answer to the question.
So let's start a.
So let me.
A laser pointer
OK? So.
So far we learn how to do
the quantization procedure,
meaning that if we have some
information about continuous
entity in the real world, we
said that we have to break
the continuous entity into
discrete units.
And then we represent
the discrete units by
some symbols or digits.
That was the birth of the
numbering system, so we know how
to represent numbers in
different bases. Base two to
base 1016, etc. And then we said
that those are unsigned numbers.
Or we could improve it to have
signed numbers negative and
positive numbers. We introduced
two systems signed magnitude and
radix complement system.
We said that although the.
Radix complement systems are a
little bit complex, but in doing
math it is much more simpler
because all the addition and
subtraction becomes addition.
Um, by I mean, applying
the radix complement
operation on a number.
Um? And also we said we
introduced fraction have
subunits of a unit. So
in general we know how
to represent numbers.
Now we want to build the
actual machine to do the
analysis. So imagine we can
represent information in
discrete units by numbers now
or we have some algorithm to
process the information.
And we want to build some
machines that does the algorithm
on these numbers or information.
So the history begins from
analog systems. At first the
systems were supposed to analyze
whatever they receive, whether
they are discrete or continuous.
For continuous systems, recall
analog systems working with the
continuous entities. As an
instance of assuming voltage
from physics, we know that
voltage is correct. The metric
is the amount of the electrical
currents divided by the
resistance of the material.
So.
I also typed. We know that time
is a continuous entity.
So if you build a system that
can analyze this change of
continuous entity within another
mean time, which is another
continuous entity, this system
is called can I mean analog
system? But we said that in such
systems we are not able to do
processing or applying some
algorithm to analyze more this
type of information.
So we said that we can
discretize a. Of continuous
entity or quantity size. A
continuous entity. And that was
the birth of discrete system.
Or Digital's just the systems
that can work with the numbers.
So now here is the task. We know
how to represent information in
numbering system and also we
have a power source electricity.
Now we want to build machine
using these two top I mean
ideas. Numbering system to
represent numbers, electricity
to give power to our machine.
So the first question is that
what is the best is or what is
the best number system to
represent the discrete units?
So we said that within the
history of human human.
Most common or the most
involved system was.
Oh sorry, that was my phone siri
She said she thought that I'm
asking about, I mean history
of computer systems.
So yes, base 10 or decimal
system was the assistant that
developed the most in the
history of human calculation.
So if we want to represent
voltage in a base 10, here is
this plus way to descriptor size
voltage. Basically we just split
the voltage from the lowest
amount of voltage to the highest
amount of voltage into 10
different ranges. Imagine that
the maximum voltage is 10.
So it could be, I mean infinite,
but we just in Miami. For
simplicity, the highest voltage
is 10. So even if it is
infinite, we can split the range
into 10 units.
So and then we could say that as
long as the voltage is within
this range. We can assign either
0 or 1 two voltage.
As long as the voltage changes
between these range this range
we could assign either symbol
one or two.
You see that with changes within the different ranges of changes of
voltage within different ranges, we can assign different units of
the decimal system.
You could say that if voltage
is more than 10 to Infinity,
we could assign the value 910
or larger number in a decimal
system.
This is 1 uh, this criticizing
voltage, but we have another.
Continuous entity time. So we
have to discretize time as well.
So this and simplest way is just
a breakdown the time into some
time intervals. And then assign
it digit or number to each range
or each time interval.
So that was the bigger for
instance. Uh, the metrics such
as year. So the amount of time Earth  over the Sun
we call it a year you can divide year into smaller units months
and then split units a an etc.
So all those metrics are were
based on the way you divide time
into sun, shorter time
intervals. Presence here, it
could be dead. It could be
hours, an, etc.
So putting these two together?
Now we have a better
interpretation of
voltage within time.
So we say that as long as the
change of voltage, for instance
here. The change of voltage
within the time interval stays
in within one range. We can
assume that in this time
interval the voltage has
concerns 5 in this range.
Or here. As long as the voltage
changes within this time
interval remains within the same
range of voltage, we could
assign a single digit in decimal
system functions here 9.
However, in the first time interval Because,
the change of voltages.
Passing different ranges, we are
not sure that what digit we have
to assign in this time interval.
So there are some time interval
that we don't know the value of
voltage. The discrete value
voltage. But there are some
cells that because the changes
of voltage is limited to that
range, you can assign discrete
unit to that.
A time interval.
But since you're not here,
you see that the changes
between the range is 2 to
three, so we can assume
that the voltage is cheap.
So this way we are discretize what is within the
time. But however, there's a
problem here. There are lots of,
um. I mean, I'm clear or
ambiguous values for voltage.
So what's the solution?
Solution is playing with at the
range that we introduced to this
criticize the coin and
continuous entity which we call
it granularity. Granularity means that the size
of the range we choose to discretize a quantity.
So for instance, here in terms
of the time, we could say that
we can kick smaller time
intervals. Instead of, for
instance, assuming we our
timetable is day, you could say
that we can break day into 24
units, so we have a smaller
units versus hours or even a
smaller 2nd and etc.
This way shorter time intervals
gives a less chance to the
voltage to have a high change.
For instance here.
Because we limit, we have a
shorter time interval. The
change of voltage remains
limited to this short amount of
time, so we now we can assign
the digit for this one.
Otherwise, if this should we
have a longer time interval, the
voltage is unclear. The value of
it because it changes from 2 and
then goes to another range.
But it's still for the first
time interval you see that is
still the value is not clear,
because in this short time
interval the voltage changes a
lot within different ranges of
voltage. So it's still we are
not sure that whether they did
it for in this time itself.
So shorter time interval.
Another approach is that instead
of having shorter time interval
having longer ranges or larger
size of ranges in voltage.
So instead of dividing into 10
year ranges, we can divide it
into full ranges.
So we although we give more
freedom to voltage to change,
but instead we have a better
interpretation of voltage within
that range. For instance, here
in this area.
Becausw voltage can change from
9 up until Infinity, any change?
In all the time intervals can
be considered as the value in
the third range.
From 9 two Infinity, so we can
assign in what ranges of the
change the voltage is.
In the third range.
So now we have from base 10 to
base four because we have four
ranges. You can assign whatever
change in the first Train 0.
Whatever change in the second
range 1/3 went two and third 4th
range 3 so far it's 023.
This is the best for system.
So as you can see here, we
have more valid digits.
In the time interval and less
unclear digits for the voltage.
So another. Approach would be,
I mean just divide the whole
range into two ranges.
From zero to five, for instance,
is we can consider the first
rent and then from 5 to
Infinity. You can assume that
there is another rent. So as you
can see we are reducing from
base 10 to base 2.
The first ones we can assign the
digit zero and the second range.
We can assign the digit 1.
And as you can see here now, any
change within the voltage 5 to
Infinity? Within all time
intervals can have an
interpretation of the digit 1.
Although there are still some
area. Add the changes. Actually
is still within two ranges.
As you can see here, the
voltage changes from one
branch to another, and so we
cannot. We are not sure what
did we have to assign this
time. Tell the same is here.
So we can put these two
together is small time
interval larger time for
time and larger time
interval for voltage in
order to come up with a
clear interpretation or
discrete digit for voltage.
So as we can see so far.
This is just this is not the
problem of the base. I mean
already's number system. We can
represent the continued entity.
We can this criticize the
continuous entity and
represented in any basis base
two base Freebase, 10 days, 16
base, any basis. So from the
abstract point of view from
mathematical point of view we
can repeat discrete any
continuous entity into discrete
unit in any basis.
But this is just because of the
hardware or engineering
limitation that. Because the
continuous entity is able to
change within ranges in the time
interval, an hour device may not
be captured. I mean may not be
able to incorporate shorter time
intervals, so as a result, for
instance here. I read out system
is not that good. In order to
capture, for instance, having a
very small time interval to
limit the change of voltage
redeem. I mean small, I mean
this range. So I have a bill. I
mean assign a digit to that.
So this is just because of the
hardware or engineering problem
that we come from the.
Eastern Base 22 Base 2.
This is not the only
factor, but the most
important one, but later
will see that there's
another factor that we
choose base 2 instead of
base 10 or base.
Other bases. So I can. I
could hear some.
Sam from the chat box so.
Any questions so far? I'm happy
to take your questions.
Barbecue would be helpful as my
family come here.
Robot gonna destroy us.
Yes, this series? Uh I, I
suggest you to saw a movie a I
mean as as we put the name for
us, I mean the space Odyssey,
the movie by Stanley Kubrick. So
we're starting with Digital
Odyssey. So I really suggest you
to watch the movie Space Odyssey
by Stanley Kubrick. Yeah, I kind
of look at it like scale.
I.
I'm not sure what you mean
by logarithmic scale.
Um?
Sometimes if you are dealing
with a very large I mean
magnitude or large numbers in
order to represent or I mean
control the large numbers you
work with logarithmic scale.
So we could say that yes, for
instance in voltage, if the
water changes from 9 to
Infinity, we assume just they
are in the higher rent. So we
assume just one digit to that
higher rent. In that sense, we
could say that the same
treatment as we do with the
logarithmic logarithmic scale.
Uh, that is breaking down this
system into discrete parts.
No, no, no. This criticize a
shun is this granularity means
that the size of that discrete
unit is smaller size.
Find granularity the largest
size in college course, so I put
it in the chat box, so fine.
We call it fine-grain granularity.
As opposed to coarse-
grain granularity
the size of the unit we
choose for split the
continuous entity. Yeah,
any other questions.
No questions.
Everything makes sense.
I yes actually borrowed these
terminology from there. Yes,
yeah, my salt.
Yeah.
Well, as you know any option, I
mean any object in the real
world is a in a.
Again, this is a controversy, so
we could say that Adams or
discrete, so anything in the
real world is discrete because
they are made of atoms and atoms
are discrete units.
But again, if you want to
measure the things, measure is a
continuous entity. So we could
say that the objects are
continuous entities. So again,
you can breakdown the object
into smaller units like salts. I
mean smaller grain of salt or
larger grain of salt, yeah?
Yes, similar, I'm in concert.
So let's continue, uh?
So indeed, uh, the first
computers built in 1840 by
Thomas folder was not based on
the electricity, so entirely
worked by kinetic energy and the
whole system was built by wood.
So the working power was
kinetic energy and the
material was would and in
terms of the numbering
system, a system was not
binary. It was based free.
It has 3 digits minus 1
zero and one.
You can read more about a
history of. I mean what was the
first computing device? So it
wasn't the 1960. The birth of
the current digital systems, so
it was way before that.
And the first system, that
numbering system that was
used for computing devices
where ternary systems.
So you can read more about
other native systems here
in this link of Wikipedia.
But as I said, I mean a binary
system is more robust to changes
or noises to the system.
You might hurt that the first
computers are was based on the
decimal system or we have
already decimal computers. Why
we said that the computers we
are going to build our base base
two or binary computers.
I will discuss this later, but
actually these computers were
not decimal computers. These
computers were working with the
binary numbers. But the
interface to the user where
decimal. You see this in the
lectures on the lab assignment
this week in the lab assignment
of this week, I asked you to
write a program that outputs the
result to the user based on
different systems based on
different basis. But it doesn't
mean that you store the
information in these systems.
For instance, in the lab
assignment you already stored
the information in binary
system. But whenever you want to
show it to the user, you can
show it in different systems.
This is the exact thing the
decimal computers does. The
decimal computers we're actually
storing the information binary
system, but whenever he wants to
show the information to the
user, it shows it in the decimal
system because the decimal
system was more understandable
to the normal user.
So we'll discover this play more
later, but I can read more in
this URL. So.
Basically, we want to again we
want to build binary systems.
Roll system that this criticize
continuous information into two
ranges, and we assign 2 digit.
And this is because of the
hardware limitation. Anne.
Another factor is this.
True and false.
So within the history, whenever
we want to validate his
statement, we say that that
statement is correct or
incorrect. So we already are
familiar. We with the binary
systems whether we accept
something or we don't accept
something. So whether something
is true or not true.
So. Uh, indeed, in
1854, George Boole, who was
a mathematician, philosopher and
logician. He in this book
he introduced some mathematics
or algebra in order to validate
his statement. And you can label
that a statement whether this
statement is true or not true.
So wait for the numbering
system. We already have this
system that has two symbols,
true false. This is another
factor that we like to build
systems that work with binary
digits because there's a huge
math behind or huge theory behind the binary systems.
So not only we can build a
system that is robust to
noise because of the
hardware limitation, we can
employ all these theories in
Boolean algebra for doing
our arithmetics.
So in fact, I mean, Claude
Shannon, who was mathematician.
As a result, he is well aware of
the Boolean algebra, the true
false system in math and also he
was an electrical engineer. So
he was well aware of the how to discretize continuous
entities with. I mean some
ranges, and he knows that. What
are the limitation of the
electrical systems? So he said
that that's used a Boolean
algebra. The true value of
these statements to do
arithmetic on binary numbers.
So this I can say the marriage
is marriage of a Boolean algebra
and the binary system happened
by Shannon. Actually he was 21
year old. Just a student at Master in at MIT. His master
thesis was about this which we
call today switching algebra.
The switching algebra is using
the Boolean algebra to do.
Math or to do arithmetic
subtraction. Addition on
binary systems in an
electrical electrical
system.
So that was the birth of the
binary computers. So you see we
have analog systems. Then we
have discrete system or digital
systems. And then we have binary
systems or binary computers.
So in binary computers are, this
is the proposition.
We say that as long we have two
main ranges, as long as the
voltage or any continuous entity
changes within very small amount
of change, for instance 02 zero
point 8 less than one unit.
We can assume symbol 0 or the
digit 0 from binary system.
If the changes is from 2
to Infinity or to some
maximum value, we can
assume that we can
interpret that change as
a digit 1.
It's called positive logic,
meaning that we give high change
2 digit 1.
Low chance digit 0.
An any changes from the low
change to high change within
this range is called a
determinant, or we call it
unclear or ambiguous value.
So for instance, if I have this
continuous signal. Which is
voltage within the time.
So as long as the change is in
the lower change, we assume that
you did 0.
However, if the change goes to
hiring. We assume there
is a digit one there.
As you can see, is still in this
system due to some noise
happening from the external, I
mean things or internal things.
Uh is still. There is a
possibility that we cannot have
a correct interpretation of the.
Value. That's why we put
this range as a kind of
damping. The change for
the continuous entity.
So again, high changes or one
load changes are zero.
And here is the actual physical
design, so we can attach. I
mean, one point of circuit to
Earth, meaning that zero
voltage, another point to a
power source. For instance a
battery. And then I register and
we introduce a gate.
If the gate is closed, we
know that I mean from
physic. You know that the
current wants to make.
Points of a circuit to
minimum voltage. Stable
minimum voltage. So the
current actually move this
way.
In electricity we call
this short circuit.
However, if the gate is open,
the current moves from the high
voltage to lower voltage.
So whenever the gate is
closed, we can interpret we
are dealing with the zero
whenever the gate is open, we
are dealing with one.
And this way we can
discretize a continuous
entity and represent binary
numbers.
We can switch our
interpretation. This way we can
say that as long as we have low
change, we assign digit one high
you assigned, it is zero. This
is called negative logic.
Ann is still have this, uh,
on deterministic and determined
area of a change.
And this is the negative logic
interpretation of voltage.
And this is the negative. I
mean a logic in the same
circuit but different
interpretation.
So, but what is the default? The
default is that in this course,
and in any computer discipline,
whenever we say we have a
computer, by default the
computer is a binary computer
and we are in a positive logic.
So the high voltage is 1, low
voltage is zero and are in this
course we want to build the
binary computer in a positive
logic and our approach is bottom
up. That we want to start with
this smallest part of the binary
computer and then put them
together to build larger units.
In building anything, there
are two main levels, design
and build.
So we have design we have built.
So what is the design in the
design step before? I mean
putting money, buying some
materials and etc and build the
actual object. We usually make a
sketch and we usually think
ahead whether this design
actually this thing gonna work.
What are the parts of the object
we want to build and we kind of
proof read the design, the
object we want to build first.
So we usually deal with the
designer step first.
In a designer step, we just
wanted to find a simpler.
And a cost effective object. And
then after that we give it to
some engineers to the object.
Plus actually the same happened
with the computers. So now we
want to build binary computers.
We first designed the binary
computers in the design step in
this course. We want to sketch
a computer 1st and just to prove
that this computer that we want
to build is working correctly.
And also it is cost
effective, meaning that we
put minimum amount of money
to build that up.
So in order to do an
efficient design we use
medical methods or
mathematical proof from
Boolean algebra.
That was the thing that we do in
this course, and also the next
course computer architecture
too. And when we come up with
the I mean efficient design, we
give it to engineers, electrical
engineers and computer engineers
to build the computer for us. So
that's the difference between
the computer science and this
course, and the computer
engineers or electrical
engineers. They start to
build the actual circuit or
the actual physical object.
So in this course, as we said,
we are not dealing with physical
things or we don't apply
insensibility actual circuit. We
just use pen and paper to sketch
the design and we just proved
that this design works perfectly
and then we we give it to
engineers to build that for us.
So any questions so far?
No questions.
Uh, just make sure that everyone
has attention to the class. So
again like before, so send me
some feedback just by clicking
on your icon and then send me.
A happy or?
Oh, seems everyone is.
The attention, but we have 50
three students in the class so.
Can you actually just put
it, period.
Phillip
ha.
Awesome, Ahmad feels like.
Yes.
I mean, it's starting building
their robots, so let's continue.
So uh, since everyone has the
focus. So what is the smallest
unit of a binary computer?
We call these smallest unit I
gates. Or because we borrowed
the terminology from Boolean
algebra from introduced by the
George Boole in 1850s, so we
called. Sometimes we call it
logic gates, but.
Whatever you can change the
gates to units. Or could you
could say that logic units so
their names for the same thing.
So logic gates, logic units,
Boolean gates, Boolean units, so
all are the same thing.
So Boolean gates, because they
are working or Boolean because
they are working with zero and
ones. So binary system.
Also or true false?
Also, binary gates because
they are dealing with binary
systems around 1:00.
The logic and Boolean comes from
the Boolean algebra. The gates
come from the Edward Shannon,
who proposed the switching
algebra to build computer
system. I'm finally comes from
the binary numbering system,
so these terminologies.
So the first unit we
introduce is this.
So again, we are in the
design level, so we just put
some picture for energy on
it. So if you ask me what is
this object, I cannot show
you this object. This object
is actually if an electrical
circuit, but we leave those
issues with the electrical
circuit voltage current
register. Answer 2 electrical
engineers at the design level
at computer science. We just
want to design.
Efficient computer, so we put
some picture for that.
So this is this is the first
unit the smallest unit we
introduce, and this is called.
Not.
The way this unit works is this
given a value zero, it makes it
one. If you give it one, it
gives you 0. Very simple,
although very simple. Introduce
some new terminologies.
Basically any unit has some
inputs. Here we have only one
input. Any unit have some output
here we have one output.
Most of the units or gates we
introduce has one output, but
they may have more than one
inputs. Also, whenever we want
to represent the inputs and also
the output, we put some alphabet
or variables. Variables means
that they can have different
values. So for the inputs, for
instance, here we have one
input. So we picked the name X,
could pick any other names ADI
don't know. I mean WZ whatever
after that you like you can use
it as a variable name.
And because this variable name
can have only two values, binary
value zero and one, we call
these. Boolean variables or
binary variables.
Whatever you do on binary
variables on binary digits at
the end of the day, you're gonna
have another binary value or
another binary or Boolean value.
So as a result, the output is
also a very variable.
We usually choose the name F as
a short form of function,
meaning that we apply a function
on input and we output in you
result. That's why we usually
use the and the alphabet F&F
is I mean very similar to the
input variable. This is a
binary variable, but it
represents the result.
And for this unit, this second
is called inversion table,
meaning this is another name for
not inverted. So basically we
invert. Uh, input.
If it is zero invited to one. If
it is imbedded to 0.
So these are another thing. So F
is called Boolean expression or
function. And if you want to say
it in sentence, we could say
that the inverse of X gives F.
And these are different ways to
show a base unit.
Not X inverter XX
prime X bar There's a bar over
here. So all are the same thing.
Some come from math, some
come from electrical
engineers, so that's why we
have different annotation to
show. I mean just same thing.
So as an immediate application
of the not gate is this.
If we are asked to build a
system that gives us the ones
complement of the binary number,
we could simply create these
wires. And then attach to
not gates at the end of
these wires. So X comes
after skate becomes Expo.
Why cops and then it becomes
viable? Or why from an etc? So
basically you're applying nuts
on each wire.
So the final result is
F1F2F3F four is the one's
complement of the input.
So here you have four binary
variables. Here you have four
Boolean expressions or Boolean
functions. The input is the
binary number. The output is
the first complement of
binary number.
So binary variable, boolean
variable. These are the
operating choose Boolean
function and these are the way
we show a unit FX is equal to
export, for instance for not.
Uh, the second unit is called
and so we already know what is
aunt in math.
But in the.
Computer systems in the design
level we show and like this, but
what is physical sense of the
end? Again, we don't care.
That's for electrical engineers.
As long as we care at the end.
An Ant has two binary inputs
and one binary outputs.
So what is the functionality?
If you are given two binary
variables in the end and these
are different combinations or
possibilities for the values of
X&Y, there is all gonna be this.
If both are zero, the output is
0. If at least one of them is 0,
the output is 0.
And this is important. The only
time that the end outputs one is
that all the inputs are one.
What we mean by 1, meaning that
all the inputs must have high
voltage. So we put high voltage
in the input and this device.
This unit is highly wanted if
one of the inputs actually drops
to hello voltage, this device
drops the voltage for us in the
output. And these are different
ways to show this unit X&Y. If
you want to write about this.
Or use this multiplication
operator Y dot X.
4 multiply y * X here. Multiply
because we are in the binary,
multiply is exactly the at.
For instance, one by one is one
1 * 0 is zero and it's set.
Also, you can simply remove any
symbol. We could simply say that
why ax meaning at Y is and with
the same we do in the
multiplication in base 10.
Another property of the and
operator is that.
It doesn't matter the order of
the inputs. Because from the
Boolean algebra, this comes from
the math theory. That's why I
say that the Boolean algebra
from magic helps us a lot to
build a computer system.
So this comes from the math
theory that multiplication is
commutative. On Boolean algebra,
the end is multiple commutative,
meaning that if you switch the
inputs, there is no difference
in the output.
So again, compare this with this
XY now YX.
Nothing changes in the output.
This property is permitted.
Hey Louise, see that what
the math behind the
commutative property.
Some interesting thing about the
Ant is this. If one of the input
drops too low it brings the
Alcatel or whatever the other
inputs is doesn't matter.
So one interpretation is this.
As long as we have at least 1
zero in the input, the end
output 0. So we don't
have to wait for the
value of other inputs.
As long as we see zero, we
output 0. It's a kind of
short set.
Again here, as long as
we see 0 doesn't matter
the other input output.
This is very helpful,
although simple, very
helpful you'll see later.
Another thing is that as long as
the input is 1.
We cannot determine the
output. We have to wait for
the value of other inputs.
So ending with one.
We have to wait to see what is
the value of X if X becomes
zero, at least 1 zero drops the
Apple. 20 What if it
is 1 then we have one, so one,
if you want we have to wait. We
cannot see what is the Apple.
As you see here.
If you add the same value with
each other doesn't have any
impact. X and X is equal to X.
So if X and x the both inputs are the same, the output depends
on the value of X.
If both, if zero
and with 0011.
So another way to show this is
this. So 1X comes to both input
off the end unit or and gate.
So these are the same.
Another interesting thing about
the end is this. If you end a
binary variable with the not of
the binary variable.
Please this is all gonna be 0.
So X and Explorer exploit
is always 0.
Because at least you gonna have
1 zero in the input and as a
result we have zero and Apple.
So if I ask you, is
it able to produce 0?
Uh, the answer is yes,
regardless of the wire you bring
from anywhere in the system, you
have to simply make it not and
then add them together.
So you have the value of 0, so
later whenever you want or you
need to produce the value zero.
You can at any point of the
system you can create.
Just by adding any wire with
enough of that way.
Another way to show that is
this. The wire comes and then
cut the wires inversion bubble.
The short form of the knot.
And then the Apple pie
with zero.
This is another way to show that
X and with Expo.
So my next topic is free input
answer. Before that, let's see
if there is any question.
So any questions so far
so we have not. And now
we want to build other
unit using these small.
Uh, units.
Inversion bubble is the circle
and not the triangle.
Uh.
Yes, yes, invasion bubble is the
circle. Yes, let me show you.
This is a shorter form of the
nuts, so sometimes yes, it's
just. This circle is called
inversion bubble. So sometimes
you show not here. Sometimes you
just Simply put this.
This is just a circle. It's
A kind of acronym or kind of
shorter picture for the
whole picture, yes.
As an instance here, which we
make it shorter.
So this effort.
So whenever you want to show an
not, we can Simply put a circle.
Remember that circle must be
empty, so later we'll see that I
can show it now here.
Uh.
Let me come back here.
You know he sometimes we have
some circles, but these circles
these are not empty circles. It
shows attachment. So basically
this wire is and this where are
attached to each other.
But this circle is an empty
circle, meaning that it's an
inversion problem. That's why
I called bubble. So be
careful about that.
Any other questions?
So we can continue with, uh.
You
larger unit so.
How about a unit of Ant or with
except three inputs?
So from the math we know
that we are able to add
3 binary variables X&YNZ.
And here is the truth table for
that. So again, if you see at
least 1 zero.
The output gonna be 0.
However, if all the inputs are
one, the output gonna be 1.
So be careful about the
behavior of the gates, so this
is the behavior of the and as
long as you see at least 1
zero simply output deal.
If you wanna act with
one, you have to check
all the inputs or one.
But how we can build this in a
in a design perspective?
So here's the way we build the
end with three input. So we have
the end with two input. So we
first an X&Y and then we end the
result with the next input Z.
So X&Y then and with Z.
This is the way we build
out with free input.
But the interesting thing.
Is a come from account
comes from math, which is
associative property.
Associative property means that
it doesn't matter that at what
order you apply the operator.
For instance, for the end, if
you apply X&Y and then with Z.
Because X&Y can be switched, so
you have Y&X.
And then you can apply.
And on the DNX first and then
on, why? So that the annex
and then and why? Why so then?
You can reach an etc. So the
order of applying an doesn't
matter because of the
associative property of the Ant.
This comes from Boolean algebra.
So as a result, if you change X
with Z or if you change Y with
Z, doesn't matter.
And here is the proof.
So if you are given 0.
At any order you apply the and
the result is the same.
If you have this variation of
this possibility or combination,
the result is the same.
You can see in other
combinations and the only
possible for output one is that
all the inputs are one.
So this is the immediate proof
for associative property. So
whenever you are asked to prove
that whether the operator or a
gate is associative, use have to
simply create this table, which
we called truth table.
And then you put different
possibilities of the values for
the input binary variables.
And then for each.
Uh. Order of application. I mean
up in the.
Function or operator. You create
one column and you compare them.
If for the same inputs you
output the same value for all
possibilities means that these
two are the same.
As a result, sometimes you have
a shorter form of and with three
gates, so you have to Simply put
three input the app, but inside
this and you have two ads.
So you have one every two
input and then the final end
with another app.
In physical perspective, in the
physical and the build level,
the electrical engineers could
put one simple circuit to do for
us. So if you go to the market
and buy an and gate with three
input and you zoom inside, you
won't see two hands because they
could build a device that can do
the three hands together.
But from the design perspective.
Long as we care inside a an
endless stream, there are
two ants and the order of
the input to these two and
doesn't matter because of
the associative property.
And and with four inputs. So
either we do end with four
rebels this way.
Kind of stacking,
the two input ends.
X&Y and then end with C and then
end with W.
And this way X&YZ&W and then
and the result again.
So in order to show that F1 and
F2 is equal, we have to simply
create the truth table.
We put all the.
Possibilities for the four
variables in the left side, we
created columns for different
variations in the right side
we check for the same input.
We are put the same result.
This is the proof.
So if you do at home, you see
that F1 and F2 is the same.
And the order again doesn't
matter. You can switch W here
and Z here and at church.
But one thing is I want to
explain are here is this.
Which one is better?
The first one.
That attaching three and each
one with two input an or this
one. Attaching again 3 input,
three ads for one Level, 2
level. Here we have 3 levels.
Here we have two levels.
So the answer is that why this
question is important.
Because although from the math
we know that it doesn't matter,
the order of applying ends.
Both F1 and F2 is equal, but in
the design we want to come up
with it an efficient one.
Efficient 1 means that first of
all, the first thing is that
true design, meaning that both.
Does the correct thing for us,
so we know that F1 and F2 is
doing the same thing, so it as
long as the.
Effective or true, being true
matters, both are equal.
But in terms of speed or
efficiency, we are looking for a
unit that is much more faster.
In the first design, if you want
to see the output of F1, you
have to 1st do one end and then
second and and then the third
one. As long as you don't do
the 3rd and you are not
looking at, you shouldn't
look at the final result
because you have to wait for
W.
But in this design we can
do X&Y&Z&W in parallel.
So while you are doing the X&Y,
you can do Z&W, so in at one
time interval we have the result
of both units and wait for
another time interval to see the
app. So the second design we say
that is faster because we need
only to wait two time interval
or two levels.
How is the first design you have
to wait for free time interval
levels of app? So we can set up
F2 is better than F1.
In terms of cost.
How many units we have to buy
from the market in the first
design we have to buy three and
in the second design we have to
buy three and so in terms of
costs money we have to pay. Both
designs are the same.
So this simple example just want
to show you that.
Whenever we design A unit, first
we have to check the design is
correct. So the effectiveness.
2nd, we have to say that, OK, we
have. We might have different
correct designs. Which one is
the better? We have to check in
terms of speed and in terms of
the money we spent on that
design. So in terms of money,
how many gates we have to buy in
terms of efficiency with speed?
How many levels you have to wait
to do the operation?
So. Another way to design the
and with four input is this one,
and with three inputs and use
another end with two inputs.
So we have two levels of Ant.
Another way is go to market and
see the electrical engineers
could build one single circuit
for doing 4 ends together or
not. So this is another way to
show an with four inputs.
Luckily in the market, the
electrical engineer could build
one single unit of and that
Acccept 2 four inputs so we can
go to market and buy one gates
to do and with four.
Uh.
Puts if the market doesn't have
that I can buy in and with three
inputs and another and with two
inputs and build the and with
four inputs. If the market
doesn't have that, we can buy
and with two inputs and design
and. Uh, for inputs like
this, or like this, but we
said that this is better.
All my question is that if you
go to the market and you only
could find and with four inputs.
But your need is 2 and two
inputs, so how can you
handle this situation?
So you go to the market you want
to buy an end with two inputs.
But it is out of stock. So
the only availability is
and with four inputs. So
how do you use the end with
four inputs for your need?
Well, it's back to the answers.
A corrected gianna. Correct,
yes, you just simply input one
in other extra inputs because
one doesn't have any influence
on the end gate. So whenever
you have extra input and you
don't need them in the end
kit, you can fill it up with
one correct? Yes.
So let's move on to the
next unit, which is or
we use or like this.
So it's kind of a curve.
Here and also care here, so this
part is could be the same Ann,
but this one is important for
the end we have just a straight
line for the all we have curved
line. This is called or. Four
is, uh, has some similarity with
and function. It accepts two
inputs. And it apples one
output. So, and here is the
functionality or the truth
table. X or Y if both are
00. If one of them, at
least one of the inputs
are one, the output is 1.
It's not the not of the
end, but it's kind of,
I mean a very I mean.
I mean a reverse another
reverse, and how can I say that?
It's kind of, I mean behavior
that. In the end, if you have
at least 1 zero the output
gonna be 0 here if you have
at least one 1 Indian for the
output, gonna be 1.
If all are zero,
the output is 0.
So it's kind of I mean in
the end, if all are one, the
output is 1 here with all
our zero thereafter is here.
And these are different
notations for or, so you can
simply say or or use the plus
operator to show or.
But remember you in the ad
you can remove the operator,
but here in the OR you are
not allowed to remove that.
So you have to put some mark
for some symbol to show that
this is an or operator.
Alright, and has the community.
Property, meaning that if you
switch the inputs, the output
going to be the same.
So if you create two columns and
you switch the inputs the same
result, you will gonna see.
Some interesting property of the
OR is this if you or with one
because you have a.
One input with the one that was
gonna be one so you don't have
to wait for the other inputs.
If you or with 00 doesn't have
any impact, so you have to wait
for other binary input.
So in the end, one doesn't
have an impact in the OR 0
doesn't have any impact.
Also, the same, uh, like and
if you or a binary variable
with itself doesn't have any
impact, so.
And also, if you or a binary
variable within a lot of itself,
because if you create another
binary variable, it at least
you're gonna have one digital
one in the input output gonna be
1. This is exactly the same as
not. Sorry it's the I mean do
all or it's kind of similar
behavior in the end X and export
produce 0 here X or export
produce one. So again like
whenever you need generate the
digit one in any point of your
system, you can simply.
Bring the white, bring the OR
gate and create another the wire
and then or it so X or export
always produce one.
So we can build a wall with
three inputs. Very similar to
the way we did with the free
input, and. So here's the truth
table. As you can see, at least
one digital one in the input
outputs one. However, if
all inputs are zero, the
applicant ID 0.
And or has associative property,
meaning that. The order of
applying the operator doesn't
matter if you apply X.
Uh, the OR on top of X&Y 1st
and then do the OR next.
It is the same result as if you
apply or first on X&Z and then
have a while.
So because of this, uh,
we can show and all with
free improve like this.
Because inside we know that
there are two orders, but the
order of X&Y&Z doesn't matter,
so the inside doesn't matter.
With four inputs like this.
So very similar if I ask you
which design is better.
Because in the second design you
have two levels of or. It's much
more faster. So the second
design is better. Both are
correct. Both you have to pay to
buy three or gates for the
second design is faster.
And here is the summary.
Comparing these two
different designs.
And, uh.
The next topic is.
Now that we know three gates.
And or and not.
So we could have and with three
input for input we could have an
or with three or four input
inputs, so. We can put them
together to generate or to build
larger units. So
to do that, uh.
We first we split the task of
building larger units into 2
directions. The task of analysis
and the task of design.
In the task of analysis,
somebody design A larger unit
for us and ask us to analyze the
design. Basically we want to do
the reverse. We are already
given the design and we want to
see or prove read or kind of
check the design. This is called
analysis. The next step is we
want to design our own units, so
that's a design level.
So why we introduced an answer
first? Because analysis is
simpler. So somebody else
actually designed a unit for us
and we just want to analyze
that. The design is a little bit
harder because you have to come
up with an efficient design
attaching the gates together to
come up with an efficient
design. That's why we discuss it
next. So we first with the
analysis. So into analysis step
you already given the design you
have to determine the
functionality exhibited by the
unit of the design.
So the most simplest larger unit
is this. Stacking two OK and
not follows in and out.
So you're asked to see what is
going to be the output.
So basically the first step is
create a truth table.
The truth table has two sides.
The left side is for the input
binary variables. The right side
is for output binary variables.
We might have multiple outputs.
We might have multiple inputs.
Here we have two inputs, 1 app.
So analysis is that determine
the right side of the table.
So in order to determine the
right side of the table, you
have to create rows.
For different possibilities in
the input. In the input, because
you have two binary variables,
you have four different
possibilities. Both are 00110
and 1 one.
So now what is going to
be the output?
So.
You breakdown the units into
different intermediate outputs,
so the first level, what is the
act of the first level. So you
first determine the value of the
first level and the output so
F1. Is X&Y so the
X&Y, is this?
If both are zero after 0 is at
least 1 zero after 0. If all are
one after this one.
And then you can assume that now
you have a not with one input
and then put is this.
If input is this, what is
going to be the final FX&Y
followed by the nuts?
So 0 not becomes one,
so becomes 10 becomes
one and one becomes 0.
So this is the final output,
so this is the analysis, so
different inputs, intermediate
outputs, final output.
So another way to show this
design and and followed by not
is this just putting the
inversion bubble at the end of
the end so XY and not?
So we call this not an or map.
This is a new gate. If you go to
the market, the electrical
engineers already built this for
us, so we can buy a not sorry in
NAND gate inside we have and
followed by the nuts.
And what is the truth table
00100 N and become zero followed
by the North one?
011101 and
110. So look
at the behavior.
Here if you have at least 1 zero
in the input, the output is 1.
Exactly the not behavior of the
Ant. So at least 1 zero the
output is 1.
Older one output is it.
Not a NAND gate, this gate is
commutative becausw X&Y,
followed by did not. You can
commute at the end, so Y&X
follow do not both the same.
So this is special
operator for Nan.
What arrow? So instead of just
writing like this X&Y not or yx
not. You can simply say why
sorry X of arrow Y or Y
of arrow X. This is another
notation for Nan.
So my question from you is this.
This is the last thing. What is
the analysis of this unit?
And and followed by the nut
which is the NAND gate. But
the input we have just one
binary variable.
So what is going to be
the output?
If X is zero, what is the F?
If X is 1, what is the app?
So let's back to.
Opposite expert.
So if X is 00 and with zero.
Zero followed by not becomes
one. If X is 1 one and one
becomes one followed by North
becomes 0. So here is this
the intermediate output.
X&X followed by nuts.
So you see that.
And NAND, who's except one
binary variables in both inputs
acts like a nut.
So NAND of two another same
binary variable is exactly the
same as not.
So if you go to market and you
couldn't find the Northgate, you
can buy the NAND gate and attach
the inputs together.
So.
This is the way that we
may create the knock it
using the NAND gate.
So remember whenever you you
need a NOT gate and you cannot
find it, you can recreate the
Northgate within Anki simply
attach. The binary variable to
both input off the market.
Oh, we're done today. So if any
questions I'm happy to take your
questions. But the most
important thing is.
Whenever you cannot find a
gate, there is a possibility
that you can build that kid
from other gates. Remember
this and one more thing I
want to show you is this. So
you remember that at first.
You asked.
What is the goal of this
banner? So you see that this
flower is made of not. This
flower is made of and, and
this flower is made of or
gate, so the combination of
nuts and or we can build these
current Now this CPU's CPUs
are the most powerful engines
for algorithm, so we just
using these simple units. We
can build that complicated.
Instant.
So that was the intention behind
the design of that battery.
So any other questions? Yes,
there's lots going to be posted.
I mean in two or three hours.
Yes, for sure.
Thank you dear. Oh thank you
all for your attention and
your attendance.
Thank you Amir and all of you have a great rest of the day.
Goodbye. You too Amir
Thank you Zach thank you Ming
So I just wanted to stop the
recording. I'm going to be in
the office. I'm in the
blackboard, so if you have
any questions I'm ready to
take your question there.